Project Hermes blogpost (#128)
comit-network/comit.network: blog/2021-11-08-hermes-goes-itchysats.md

---
title: "Hermes goes ItchySats"
author: daniel
author_url: https://github.com/da-kami
author_image_url: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/5557790
tags: [bitcoin,defi,liquid,options,futures,loans]
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img alt="Hermes" src={useBaseUrl('blog/assets/images/2021-11/hermes-goes-itchysats.png')} />

In this blogpost we introduce you to our latest project: Hermes, CFD trading using DLCs on Bitcoin.
Other than project baru we decided to build on Bitcoin directly rather than building on the Liquid sidechain.

> We are teaming up with [ItchySats](https://www.itchysats.network/) for CFD trading directly on Bitcoin and support them with DLC research.

Reviewer: Love it ❤️

<!--truncate-->

## DeFi - yet again

DeFi - short for decentralised finance - can mean many things.
In the Ethereum world, DeFi is all about smart contracts with governance tokens, yield farming, AMM pools, collateralised loans and lots of other stuff.
Ethereum's smart contract model makes building these things reasonable easy and the pace of innovation is quite incredible.

In the Bitcoin world, many consider Bitcoin to be the original DeFi.
Bitcoin means [many things](https://medium.com/@nic__carter/visions-of-bitcoin-4b7b7cbcd24c) to many different people.
If we think about it as a financial asset, it makes sense to build financial products on top of it.
We think Bitcoin is the world's best leverage - time to leverage it!

> Of course, while doing so, we don't want to compromise Bitcoin's core values: decentralised, censorship-resistant and permission-less.

Reviewer: Imho this is one word. 

```suggestion
Of course, while doing so, we don't want to compromise Bitcoin's core values: decentralised, censorship-resistant and permissionless.
```

## DeFi on Bitcoin

Bitcoin is constantly evolving.
As you would expect from a system that governs [billions of dollars](https://coinmarketcap.com/), it moves at a fairly slow rate.

While working on project baru, our Bitcoin loan solution on the Liquid sidechain, the ItchySats team approached us with one question:

> Is there any derivative that we *can* build directly on present day Bitcoin?

Yes there is! We can actually achieve CFD (Contract For Difference) trading.

> Using DLCs and an Oracle we are able to use the world's best leverage directly on layer 1!

Reviewer: I think you mean collateral right? 

```suggestion
Using DLCs and an Oracle we are able to use the world's best collateral directly on layer 1!
```

Author: riiight, my brain was not working 😅
